---
title: The Pennsylvania Youth Survey
tag: ''
link: https://www.pccd.pa.gov/Juvenile-Justice/Pages/Pennsylvania-Youth-Survey-(PAYS).aspx
pdf: ''
link_or_pdf: false

---
Gathers data from Pennsylvania students about their behavior and attitudes around violence, alcohol and other drugs. PAYS provides critical information on behaviors and patterns of use, but more importantly it assesses risk factors related to use and the protective factors that help guard against them. “Protective factors, also known as “assets,” are conditions that buffer children and youth from exposure to risk by either reducing the impact of the risks or changing the way that young people respond to risks. Protective factors identified through research include strong bonding to family, school, community and peers. These groups support the development of healthy behaviors for children by setting and communicating healthy beliefs and clear standards for children’s behavior. Young people are more likely to follow the standards for behavior set by these groups if the bonds are strong. Strong bonds are encouraged by providing young people with opportunities to make meaningful contributions, by teaching them the skills they need to be successful in these new opportunities, and by recognizing their contributions. Risk factors are conditions that increase the likelihood of a young person becoming involved in drug use, delinquency, school dropout and/or violence. For example, children living in families with poor parental monitoring are more likely to become involved in these problems.” See Communities That Care: Risk and Protective Factors, p. 1.